now Ben Heder the king of Syria gathered
all his forces together 32 Kings were
with him with horses and chariots and he
went up and besieged Samaria and made
war against
[Music]
then he sent messengers into the city to
ahab king of israel and said to him thus
says ben hey dad your silver and your
gold are mine your loveliest wives and
children are mine and the king of israel
answered my lord o king just as you say
i and all that i have are yours then the
messengers came back and said thus
speaks ben hey dad saying indeed i have
sent to you saying you shall deliver to
me your silver and your gold your wives
and your children but i will send my
servants to you tomorrow about this time
and they shall search your house and the
houses of your servants and it shall be
that whatever is pleasant in your eyes
they will put in their hands and take it
so the king of israel called all the
elders of the land notice please and see
how this man seeks trouble for he sent
to me for my wives my children my silver
and my gold and i did not deny him and
all the elders and all the people said
to him do not listen or consent
therefore he said to the messengers of
ben-hadad tell my lord the king all that
you sent for to your servant the first
time i will do but this I cannot do and
the messengers departed and brought back
word to him
[Music]
then ben-hadad
sent to him and said the gods do so to
me and more also if he left dust is left
of Samaria for a handful for each of the
people who follow me tell him let not
the one who puts on his Armour boast
like the one who takes it and it
happened when ben-hadad heard this
message that he and the kings were
drinking at the command post that he
said to his servants get ready and they
got ready to attack the city suddenly a
prophet approached a king of Israel thus
says the Lord have you seen all this
great multitude behold I will deliver it
into your hand today and you shall know
that i am the lord by whom thus says the
lord by the young leaders of the
provinces who will set the battle in
order
[Music]
then he mustered the young leaders of
the provinces and there were 232 and
after them he mustered all the people
all the children of Israel 7,000 so they
went out at noon
meanwhile been hey Dad and the 32 Kings
helping him were getting drunk at the
command post the young leaders of the
provinces went out first and been hey
Dad
sent out a patrol and they told him men
are coming out of Samaria if they have
come out for peace take them alive
and if they have come out for war take
them alive then these young leaders of
the provinces went out of the city with
the army which followed them and each
one killed his man so the Syrians fled
and Israel pursued them and then haida
the king of Syria escaped on a force
with the cavalry and the king of Israel
went out and attacked the horses and
chariots and killed the Syrians with a
great slaughter and the Prophet came to
the king of Israel and said to him go
strengthen yourself take note and see
what you should do for in the spring of
the year the king of Syria will come up
against you then the servants of the
king of Syria said to him their guards
are gods of the hills therefore they
were stronger than we but if we fight
against them in the plain surely we will
be stronger than they so do this thing
dismiss the Kings each from his position
and put captains in their places and you
shall muster an army like the army that
you have lost horse for horse and
chariot for chariot then we will fight
against them in the plain surely we will
be stronger than they
and he listened to their voice and did
so so it was in the spring of the year
that Ben Hadad mustered the Syrians and
went up to a 'fuck to fight against
Israel and the children of Israel were
mustered and given provisions and they
went against them now the children of
Israel encamped before them like two
little flocks of goats while the Syrians
filled the countryside then a man of God
came and spoke to the king of Israel
thus says the Lord because the Syrians
have said the Lord is God of the hills
but he is not God of the valleys
therefore I will deliver all this great
multitude into your hand and you shall
know that I am the lord and they
encamped opposite each other for seven
days so it was that on the seventh day
the battle was joined and the children
of Israel killed one hundred thousand
foot soldiers of the Syrians in one day
but the rest fled to a thief into the
city then a wall fell on 27 thousand
and ben-hadad fled and went into the
city into an inner chamber then his
servant said to him look now we have
heard that the kings of the house of
Israel are merciful Kings
please let us put sackcloth around our
waist and ropes around our heads and go
out to the king of Israel perhaps he
will spare your life
so they worse a cloth around their
waists and put ropes around their heads
and came to the king of Israel and said
your servant then hey Dad says please
let me live is he still alive he is my
brother now the men were watching
closely to see whether any sign of mercy
would come from him and they quickly
grasped at this word your brother Ben
hate him go bring him then Ben Hadad
came out to him and he had him come up
into the chariot so Ben Hadad said to
him the cities which my father took from
your father I will restore and you may
set up marketplaces for yourself in
Damascus because my father did in
Samaria I will send you away with this
treaty so he made a treaty with him and
sent him away
now a certain man of the sons of the
prophets said to his neighbor by the
word of the Lord
strike me please and the man refused to
strike him because you have not obeyed
the voice of the Lord surely as soon as
you depart from me a lion shall kill you
and as soon as he left him a lion found
him and killed him and he found another
man strike me please
so the man struck him inflicting a wound
then the prophet departed and waited for
the king by the road and disguised
himself with a bandage over his eyes now
as the King passed by he cried out to
the king
your servant went out into the midst of
the battle and there a man came over and
brought a man to me and said guard this
man if by any means he is missing your
life shall be for his life or else you
shall pay a talent of silver while your
servant was busy here and there he was
gone then the king of Israel said to him
so shall your judgment be you yourself
have decided it and he hastened to take
the bandage away from his eyes and the
king of Israel recognised him as one of
the prophets thus says the Lord because
you have let slip out of your hand a man
whom I appointed to utter destruction
therefore your life shall go for his
life and your people for his people
so the king of Israel went to his house
solemn and displeased and came to
Samaria
[Music]